SUMMARY OF PROJECT:
The project analyze and predict medical insurance costs by exploring how different personal and lifestyle factors that influence
the total charges of the insurance. Using a real-world dataset containing variables such as age, gender, BMI, employment details,
other lifestyle diseases like diabtes etc, smoking habits, and region, this study applies Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA) and predictive modeling techniques to
uncover meaningful patterns. The findings of this project can help insurance companies in setting fair premium rates and assist individuals in understanding how
lifestyle choices affect their insurance costs.

Key Steps in the Project: Data cleaning & Pre Processing:
Fixing errors and inconsistancies which include checking and handling missing values,
remove duplicates, fixing data types and formatting and renaming of columms.

Explanatory Data Analysis (EDA):
Preparation of explanatory data for the various lifestyle variables to explain the pattern of cost variation.
Visualizations: Generation of different type of visuals using plots to study various patterns based on lifestyle factors,
age, bmi etc Activity based analysis using univariate, bivariate and multivariate analysis to clearly understand the demographics with each components.

List of Libraries used:
Pandas - To read clean and analyse the given data
csv - To read and edit files in csv format
matplotlib - Create charts and plots for visualizations
Seaborn - Create statistical visualizations
plotly- Create comparitive charts showing patterns.

Analytical & Real world value of Project:
Life style diseases like diabetes, hyper tension and cholestrol adversly affect the cost of insurance plans and are categorised
under pre existing diseases. Higher value of BMI and obesity increases the overall cost of insurance premium considering
the future risk of lifestyle diseases. Lower age of individuals reduces significant cost in insurance premium amount focusing
long term insurance with the company and lesser lifestyle diseases at younger ages.

INSIGHTS AND OBSERVATIONS:
The prediction helps insurance companies to fair and data driven pricing and
calculations based on lifestyle factors.
Educates people how BMI and smoking habbits adversly affects medical costs.
Supports policy making and preventive care by identifying high-risk individuals.

OVERALL OBSERVATIONS:
- Most customers with high BMI also have high insurance charges.
- The age distribution says that middle-aged individuals is fairly balanced and continuous, suitable for modeling and correlation analysis.
- Smokers tend to have higher medical expenses than non-smokers.
- Age shows a moderate positive co-relation with insurance charges.
- The heat map reflects that the age and bmi values directly relates to the risk of various diseases.

BUSINESS RECOMMENDATIONS:
- The medical insurance companies focus on healthy and younger people so that the insured will be claimless for a longer period of time from the point of life style diseases.
-Higher BMI results in Higher Cost: Encouraging weight management and wellness programs are essential to have a normal BMI.
- Smoking acts a Major Cost Factor: Promotion of anti-smoking initiatives and offer incentives for non-smokers.
- Chronic Diseases are also Cost Drivers: Early screening and preventive care can reduce long-term expenses.
- Older Age incures Higher Premiums: Adjust insurance pricing fairly based on risk factors.
- Campaigns on smokers and diabetic patients with higer value of BMI can help to reduce insurance claims.
